>> Steve Kinney: Here's
the thing about Cmd+P and
Cmd+Shift+P, you're gonna mess it up,
right?
You're gonna mean to open
the Cmnd palette, and
sometimes you'll see the files,
you could close it.
We'll see who's got the iSpy,
gold medal today,
which is, if I hit Cmd+P,
I see the file switcher, not Cmd+O.
That's a different thing
that I never want.
If I hit Cmd+Shift+P,
what's the difference in
the contents of that input field?
>> Speaker 2: Secure it in there.
>> Steve Kinney: It's secure it in there,
right, which is nice,
because it means if you hit Cmd+P, and
you meant to hit Cmd+Shift+P you just type
the caret and you're in the same place.
If you did the opposite, you delete
The only difference between
those two views is whether or
not they put a caret in there for
you, right?
So either one is an option as well.
There's also this pound sign which,
what's this?
This is actually super useful by the way.
In the given editor that you're in,
all of the quote-unquote symbols, right?
Or this is actually in the project itself,
right?
So if all your functions are poorly named,
this is not super helpful for you.
But we've all got those ones that
maybe pull in from an API and
format your data, or
something along those lines.
If you know the name of
the function you're looking for,
you can try to guess what file it's in.
Hopefully, you've made
that easy on yourself.
But if you haven't,
you can also just kind of do this.
And this is looking for a symbol, right?
So this is the same as go to symbol and
editor, right, Cmd+Shift+O as well.
And so here you can jump to a given
function, right, and see it as well.
And we'll see some other ways
to kinda jump around later.
But again, I mean, I'm repeating it over
and over and over again cuz it bears
repeating at the beginning of this
workshop for all of the things, pausing.
Anytime you catch yourself not thinking
your big brain thoughts, think about, why?
What am I doing?
And yes, the act of thinking about why is
a further distraction from your big brain
thought, I get that 100%, right?
But we're trying to do nice things for
future us and not current us in this case.
Cool, cool, cool.
So we split editors.
The other option that you can do,
there's things that you learn about
an editor when you're preparing
to teach a workshop on an editor.
You can also open, yeah,
the same file in a new window as well.
I have never wanted to do that in my life.
I will split my editor a thousand
ways on a big enough screen.
I have never wanted to do that.
The other feature that I
think is probably better for
writing than it is for
coding is we've also got Zen mode, right?
Which kinda focuses you in,
you can change some of the settings here
where you can only see a line or two.
Very probably good for
writing a bunch of Markdown,
usually not what I want when I'm coding.
But more importantly,
if you find yourself in this view,
that's how you got there as well.
And any of these are changeable,
we'll talk a little bit about
keyboard shortcuts in a bit.
But if we have tabs,
we have got Cmd, Option Tab, or Ctrl,
Alt and the arrows rather.
And this will actually
split across panes as well.
So if I have this one here,
I can kind of walk across the different
tabs that I have, and it'll go from
the first editor group to the second
editor group, so on and so forth.
As well, like I said, we can jump
between the different editor groups.
Like I said,
you've got that 1, 2, 3, 4, or
you've got the ability to kind of move up,
down, left, and right as well.
The other one is,
anyone ever have a failing test?
Has that ever happened to any of you,
yeah?
There's a bunch of really cool tricks,
like sometimes you can probably just
Cmd or Ctrl click on it and open it.
But let's say you get
something where it's like or
maybe you saw it in the GitHub action or
CICD where it's like,
you have a problem on such and
such file line 235, column 197, right?
Let's go over to this one again.
The other nice thing you can do is Ctrl+G,
or
again, you just go to line/column.
First, it tells you where
you are right now but
you could also say that I
wanna go to line, I know 25.
>> Steve Kinney: Take me to line 25.
I can jump to whatever line I need to jump
to and it'll shoot me down there as well.
Again, the little things just for jumping
around cuz, yeah, in a 40 line file,
not a big deal.
We all know the file I'm talking about.
You have that, we all have that file.
We regret that file.
Maybe it's some kinda auto generated
data or something along those lines.
We all have the file.
Each one of our 1000
line files are different.
Sometimes they are deeply problematic,
but we all have them and so
here we can jump around super easily.
The other one that honestly
is worth the price
of admission alone to this workshop is,
I just say what I'm gonna
call go to bracket.
I'm gonna call go to bracket cuz
it is called go to bracket, right?
And that is why I'm going
to call it go to bracket.
So we again, go to bracket,
is this Cmd+Shift+backslash.
And what it does is let's say you were in,
in this case, these parentheses.
>> Steve Kinney: As you
can see very subtly.
It will jump to the closing bracket,
right, from the opening to the closing.
There is another useful one that we will
put a key binding to a little bit later,
and the way that I discover
this one is going.
I really wish VS code did this,
half the time when you really
wish VS code did something.
It might and what do you do?
You open up the Cmd palette, we sent you
the theme here, then you step in bracket.
There is also select a bracket, when we
select everything in between two brackets.
You will notice that this does not have a
key binding, you can control all of that.
We will get there, we have an agenda.
I promise you,
we will talk about key bindings.
But again, some of this starts with,
I really wish it would do such and such.
And then again,
training the ability to go in there and
find something I have never wanted.
I guess, there's a word where
I might wanna do that one.
Select a bracket again,
just to show you the go to bracket.
Except that I have definitely changed
that one and overloaded it at this point.
But you can jump back and
forth between them.
You will also find all the different
places where you have other apps that
have taken over keyboard shortcuts.
We will talk about ways to dedupe that,
and at least on MacOS,
see what some of them are as well.
So here, we've got go to bracket,
it will jump between the two of them.
Other fun ones is that
terminal we saw before,
you can open it up, again,
there's a terminal Cmd here.
But we can also hit, in this case,
on a Mac Ctrl+backtick, and
it will open up the terminal.
Now the interesting one,
again, this is where,
there are some things that
do not happen into the box.
We will fix them all later, as again,
we begin to build our own lightsaber.
Which is to get back to the editor,
you can hit either Cmd +1 to get back to
the first editor, or 2 to the second one.
There's not really a great way
out of the box to get back
into the terminal,
you can see if it works on yours.
But I think, you can set one up so
you can go back and
focus to it if it's already open.
And we will set that up together in a
little bit, but you can jump around again.
These are all the things where
that's not that hard, right?
Also have a very small screen right now,
not that I'm complaining about that
the entire time, but right now I am.
But like all those things, if we can get
all those little micro things down to
the point we can just think
our big brain thoughts and
the rest becomes muscle memory,
we are happier people.
Are you gonna memorize all these
immediately, cuz I said them once or
cuz you read the notes?
Probably not, but if you just, again,
build the habit, catching yourself and
jumping down that you will see all
of the various pieces as well.
Like I said, there's a lot of work
to do to customize the editor.
All the ways that make us happy, again,
the ways that make me happy might not
be the ways that make you happy, and
we'll talk about how to personalize and
customize it in a little bit.
But out of the box, these are some of
the high level ones that we have as well.
In the kinda course website I did
grab some of the common ones and
make some pretty tables with
what the various shortcuts are.
Again, I got carried away, I put copy and
paste in there, I don't know.
But, yeah, some of the common ones that
you might need and use, because watching
me go through every keyboard shortcut one
by one is probably a form of torture.
So there is a reference again,
but pop quiz.
What's the best way to figure out what
the keyboard shortcut is for something?
>> Speaker 3: Use the Cmd palette.
>> Steve Kinney: Use the Cmd palette,
right, again, building habit will not
solve your problems overnight, but
probably over a week or two will.
So that's not a bad timeline,
I'm into it, cool.
So that's kind of something long and
short of the editor layout as well,
just checking real quick if I've
got other big brain thoughts.
Yeah, the other thing you can do in there
as well is, if you hit the up arrow,
you can kinda also move through
some of the things as well.
Again, it's a fuzzy search.
So you can kinda explore.
As you can see,
a lot of these have a little gear, right,
that is the ability to
add a key binding to it.
We will talk about that dedicated in
its own little piece in a second or
two, but kind of to give
a little spoiler alert, right?
You can kind of see some of where
we're gonna go with this as well.